Hello, and welcome.
In this video, we're going to show you how to read in a text file using the R programming
language.
We'll also introduce several functions that provide useful information about the file.
In order to demonstrate how to read these files, we're going to work with an example,
which has the file path shown here.
You can also take a quick look at the file's contents.
Our example file contains three lines of text from Wikipedia's page on the 1995 movie "Toy
Story".
One function that we can use to read the file is "readLines".
Notice that the argument to the "readLines" function is the file path from before.
The "text" variable receives a character vector, containing one item for each of the lines
in the file.
Keep in mind that a "line" is not the same thing as a sentence.
Instead, lines are broken up by individual line breaks, which essentially form new paragraphs.
Let's now take a look at a few functions we can apply to gain information about the file.
In order to count the number of lines in the dataset, we can pass our "text" variable to
the "length" function.
The "length" function will simply count up the number of elements in the vector, which
in this case, is 3.
The "nchar" function will count up the number of characters in each line of our character
vector.
You can see the result of that function here.
Each value includes letters and numbers, as well as symbols.
If you'd like to know the size of your file, you can pass the file path to the "file.size"
function.
The output here is listed in bytes, which tells us that our example file has a size
of 586 bytes.
If you'd like to read a text file by word, rather than by line, you can use the "scan"
function while following the syntax you see here.
Again, the first argument is simply a file path.
And the second argument is just an empty string, but it is needed for our purposes.
If you look at the output, you'll see the "scan" function produces a vector with each
individual word as an element.
By now, you should understand the functions that allow you to work with text files in
the R programming language.
Thank you for watching this video.